Datasets: Adding doc for DuckDB CLI integration (#1297)
huggingface/hub-docs: docs/hub/datasets-duckdb-cli-select.md

# Query datasets

Querying datasets is a fundamental step in data analysis. Here, we'll guide you through querying datasets using various methods.

> There are several [different ways](https://duckdb.org/docs/data/parquet/overview.html) to select your data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are [several ways](https://duckdb.org/docs/data/parquet/overview.html) to select your data.
```

(it seemed a bit redundant)

Using the `FROM` syntax:
```bash
FROM 'hf://datasets/jamescalam/world-cities-geo/train.jsonl' SELECT city, country, region LIMIT 3;

┌────────────────┬─────────────┬───────────────┐
│      city      │   country   │    region     │
│    varchar     │   varchar   │    varchar    │
├────────────────┼─────────────┼───────────────┤
│ Kabul          │ Afghanistan │ Southern Asia │
│ Kandahar       │ Afghanistan │ Southern Asia │
│ Mazar-e Sharif │ Afghanistan │ Southern Asia │
└────────────────┴─────────────┴───────────────┘

```

Using the `SELECT` and `FROM` syntax:

```bash
SELECT city, country, region FROM 'hf://datasets/jamescalam/world-cities-geo/train.jsonl' USING SAMPLE 3;

┌──────────┬─────────┬────────────────┐
│   city   │ country │     region     │
│ varchar  │ varchar │    varchar     │
├──────────┼─────────┼────────────────┤
│ Wenzhou  │ China   │ Eastern Asia   │
│ Valdez   │ Ecuador │ South America  │
│ Aplahoue │ Benin   │ Western Africa │
└──────────┴─────────┴────────────────┘

```

> Count all parquet files matching a glob pattern:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Count all JSONL files matching a glob pattern:
```

```bash
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM 'hf://datasets/jamescalam/world-cities-geo/*.jsonl';

┌──────────────┐
│ count_star() │
│    int64     │
├──────────────┤
│         9083 │
└──────────────┘

```

> You can also query Parquet files using the read_parquet and parquet_scan functions. Let's explore these functions using the auto-converted Parquet files from the same dataset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also query Parquet files using the `read_parquet` function (or its alias `parquet_scan`). Let's explore these functions using the auto-converted Parquet files from the same dataset.
```

Also: add a link to the page on auto-conversion for more details

Select using [read_parquet](https://duckdb.org/docs/guides/file_formats/query_parquet.html) function:

```bash

> SELECT * FROM read_parquet('hf://datasets/jamescalam/world-cities-geo@~parquet/default/**/*.parquet') LIMIT 3;

Reviewer: maybe show the result (to see that it's the same as the JSON)

```

Read all files that match a glob pattern and include a filename column specifying which file each row came from:

```bash
SELECT * FROM read_parquet('hf://datasets/jamescalam/world-cities-geo@~parquet/default/**/*.parquet', filename = true) LIMIT 3;
```

> Using [`parquet_scan`](https://duckdb.org/docs/data/parquet/overview) function:

Reviewer: I think it's confusing, because it's only an alias to `read_parquet`. I would remove it.
